# what is the difference between `block` and `inline`?

Seems to be an easy one, but even for the simplest question we could do our best to shine.

To answer this question, maybe we could mention Normal Flow(CSS Flow Layout) and Formatting Context

[Problem Link](https://bigfrontend.dev/question/what-is-the-difference-between-block-and-inline)

## Answer

In CSS, the terms `block` and `inline` determine how elements are positioned in relation to other elements in the document flow.

These are used to describe the display behavior of elements within the context of the [Normal Flow](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Flow_Layout) (CSS Flow Layout) and [Formatting Context](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_flow_layout/Introduction_to_formatting_contexts).

---

### Block

Elements such as `<div>`, `<p>`, `<h1>`, and `<ul>`, create a rectangular box that spans the entire width of its parent container by default.

- Block-level elements start on a new line in the document flow, stacking vertically on top of each other.
- They take up the full available width and expand to fill their parent container horizontally.
- You can set properties like width, height, margins, and padding to control the size and spacing of block-level elements.

```html
<div>
  <p>This is a block-level element.</p>
  <p>It starts on a new line.</p>
</div>
```

---

### Inline

Elements such as `<span>`, `<a>`, `<strong>`, and `<em>`, do not create a new line by default and flow within the content of their parent elements.

- They only occupy the space required by their content, so they don't break the flow of text or other inline elements.
- You can't set properties like width and height for inline-level elements, but you can control properties like margins and padding.
- Inline elements can be grouped together and flow horizontally within a line.

```html
<p>This is an <span>inline-level element</span> within a paragraph.</p>
```

---

#### Formatting Context:

- The Formatting Context is an important concept in CSS layout, and it affects how elements are positioned and interact with each other in a web page.
- Block-level elements create a Block Formatting Context (BFC), while inline-level elements participate in an Inline Formatting Context (IFC).
- BFCs are used to define the layout and positioning of block-level elements, including how they interact with their siblings and parent containers.
- IFCs are used for inline-level elements and dictate how they flow within a line of text.
