# Explain `macrotask` and `microtask`

In case you are not sure, please read about Event loop first.

[Problem Link](https://bigfrontend.dev/question/Explain-macrotask-and-microtask%60)

## Answer

In the context of JavaScript and asynchronous programming, ["macrotasks" and "microtasks"](https://javascript.info/event-loop#macrotasks-and-microtasks) refer to different types of tasks that are scheduled to be executed at specific points in the event loop.

> The [event loop](https://javascript.info/event-loop) is a fundamental part of JavaScript's concurrency model, responsible for managing and executing tasks in a non-blocking manner.

The event loop is the core of JavaScript's concurrency model, responsible for managing the execution of macrotasks and microtasks in a non-blocking fashion. It continuously checks the message queue for pending tasks and executes them in a specific order: first microtasks, then macrotasks.

---

### Macrotasks:

- Macrotasks are higher-level tasks that are typically executed asynchronously and can be thought of as larger units of work.
- They include tasks like I/O operations, setTimeout, setInterval, and DOM rendering. Macrotasks are added to the callback queue when their associated events occur or when timers expire.
- Macrotasks have a lower priority compared to microtasks and are executed after the microtask queue is empty.

```javascript
setTimeout(() => {
  console.log("This is a macrotask.");
}, 1000);
```

---

### Microtasks:

- Microtasks are smaller, fine-grained tasks that are executed asynchronously and have a higher priority than macrotasks.
- They include tasks like Promise resolution callbacks (then and catch), process.nextTick (in Node.js), and mutation observer callbacks.
- Microtasks are executed immediately after the current execution context finishes, before returning control to the event loop for the next macrotask.

```javascript
Promise.resolve().then(() => {
  console.log("This is a microtask.");
});
```
