# What is the difference between Express and Koa

Express and Koa are popular solutions for server-side JavaScript applications.

You'd better try to write some code with each and understand the difference.

If you don't have time, this article might help

[Problem Link](https://bigfrontend.dev/question/What-is-the-difference-between-Express-and-Koa)

## Answer

[Express](https://expressjs.com/) and [Koa](https://koajs.com/) are both popular Node.js web frameworks used for building web applications and APIs. They have some similarities but also some key differences in their design and approach —

### Middleware Handling:

Koa uses `async/await` for middleware functions, making it more modern and easier to work with asynchronous code.

```javascript
// Middleware in Express
expressApp.use((req, res, next) => {
  console.log("This is middleware in Express");
  next();
});

// Middleware in Koa
koaApp.use(async (ctx, next) => {
  console.log("This is middleware in Koa");
  await next();
});
```

### Context Object:

In Express, you access request and response objects as separate entities (i.e., `req` and `res`), while in Koa, these are encapsulated in a single context object (`ctx`). Koa's use of a context object can make it more convenient for handling requests and responses.

```javascript
// Express:
app.get("/", (req, res) => {
  res.send("Hello from Express!");
});

// Koa:
app.use(async (ctx) => {
  ctx.body = "Hello from Koa!";
});
```

### Error Handling:

In Express, error handling is typically done using try-catch blocks or custom error-handling middleware. In Koa, you can use try-catch as well, but it also provides a more elegant way to handle errors using `.on('error')` on the app instance.

```javascript
// Express:
app.use((err, req, res, next) => {
  console.error(err.stack);
  res.status(500).send("Something broke!");
});

// Koa:
app.on("error", (err, ctx) => {
  console.error("Koa Error:", err);
});
```

### Size and Modularity:

Koa is smaller in terms of codebase compared to Express and follows a more modular approach. Express provides more features out of the box, while Koa allows developers to choose and add the desired functionality through middleware.

#### TLDR;

In summary, Express is a more mature and feature-rich framework, while Koa is known for its simplicity, use of modern JavaScript features, and more elegant handling of asynchronous code.
