# What is CSRF? How to prevent it?

Common question being asked at an interview.

You must understand why this is a problem, what it can lead to and how to prevent it.

Mentioning SameSite definitely gonna shine you up, because it is fairly new technique.

This article explains this so well that I recommend you read it thoroughly.

[Problem Link](https://bigfrontend.dev/question/What-is-CSRF-How-to-prevent-it)

## Answer

> [CSRF(Cross-Site Request Forgery)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/CSRF) is a type of security vulnerability in web applications that impersonates a trusted user and sends a website unwanted commands.

---

### How is CSRF done ?

1. The attacker creates a malicious website or sends a malicious email to the victim.
2. The victim visits the malicious website or clicks on a link in an email while being authenticated in some other web application (e.g., a banking site) in the same browser.
3. The malicious website sends a request to the target web application on behalf of the victim without their knowledge.
4. The target web application processes the malicious request, thinking it's legitimate, and carries out an action on behalf of the victim.

This is a problem because it can lead to unauthorized actions being taken on behalf of the user, potentially resulting in data loss, financial loss, or other harmful consequences.

---

### How to prevent it ?

- **Use Anti-CSRF Tokens:** These tokens are generated on the server-side and included in forms or as headers in requests. They are unique to each user session and are validated by the server for every request. If the token is missing or invalid, the request is rejected.

  ```html
  <form action="/process" method="POST">
    <input type="hidden" name="csrf_token" value="GENERATED_TOKEN_HERE" />
    <!-- Other form fields -->
    <button type="submit">Submit</button>
  </form>
  ```

  On the server-side, you should verify the token's validity before processing the request.

- **Set SameSite Cookie Attribute:** SameSite is a cookie attribute that can help mitigate CSRF attacks. By setting the SameSite attribute to `Strict` or `Lax` for your cookies, you can restrict when cookies are sent with cross-origin requests.

  ```javascript
  document.cookie = "sessionCookie=example; SameSite=Strict; Secure";
  ```

> Strict: Cookies are not sent in cross-origin requests, providing strong protection but may break some legitimate use cases.

> Lax: Cookies are sent with top-level navigations and "safe" cross-origin POST requests (e.g., forms), offering a good balance between security and usability.

- **Implementing Proper Access Controls and Education:** Ensure that your web application has proper access controls in place, including authentication and authorization mechanisms. Educate users to be cautious about clicking on suspicious links or visiting unknown websites.
